# SuperLinq.Async

Async LINQ to Objects is missing a few desirable features.

This project enhances Async LINQ to Objects with extra methods, 
in a manner which keeps to the spirit of LINQ.

SuperLinq.Async is available for download and installation as a
[NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/superlinq.async/).

## Usage

SuperLinq.Async can be used in one of two ways. The simplest is to just import the
`SuperLinq.Async` namespace and all extension methods become instantly available for
you to use on the types they extend (typically some instantiation of
`IAsyncEnumerable<T>`).

Apart from extension methods, SuperLinq.Async also offers regular static method
that *generate* (instead of operating on) sequences, like `Unfold`,
`Random`, `Sequence` and others. 

## .NET Versions

Base library is supported on .NET Core 3.1 and .NET 5.0+.

## Operators

### AggregateRight

Applies a right-associative accumulator function over a sequence.
This operator is the right-associative version of the Aggregate LINQ operator.

This method has 9 overloads.

### AtLeast

Determines whether or not the number of elements in the sequence is greater
than or equal to the given integer.

### AtMost

Determines whether or not the number of elements in the sequence is lesser
than or equal to the given integer.

### Choose

Applies a function to each element of the source sequence and returns a new
sequence of result elements for source elements where the function returns a
couple (2-tuple) having a `true` as its first element and result as the
second.

This method has 2 overloads.

### CompareCount

Compares two sequences and returns an integer that indicates whether the
first sequence has fewer, the same or more elements than the second sequence.

### Consume

Completely consumes the given sequence. This method does not store any data 
during execution

### CountBy

Applies a key-generating function to each element of a sequence and returns a
sequence of unique keys and their number of occurrences in the original
sequence.

This method has 2 overloads.

### CountDown

Provides a countdown counter for a given count of elements at the tail of the
sequence where zero always represents the last element, one represents the
second-last element, two represents the third-last element and so on.

This method has 2 overloads.

### DistinctBy

Returns all distinct elements of the given source, where "distinctness" is
determined via a projection and the default equality comparer for the
projected type.

This method has 2 overloads.

### ElementAt

Returns the element at a specified index in a sequence.

### EndsWith

Determines whether the end of the first sequence is equivalent to the second
sequence.

This method has 4 overloads.

### Exactly

Determines whether or not the number of elements in the sequence is equals
to the given integer.

### ExceptByItems (formerly ExceptBy)

Returns the set of elements in the first sequence which aren't in the second
sequence, according to a given key selector.

This method has 2 overloads.

### FallbackIfEmpty

Returns the elements of a sequence and falls back to another if the original
sequence is empty.

This method has 3 overloads.

### FillBackward

Returns a sequence with each null reference or value in the source replaced
with the following non-null reference or value in that sequence.

This method has 7 overloads.

### FillForward

Returns a sequence with each null reference or value in the source replaced
with the previous non-null reference or value seen in that sequence.

This method has 7 overloads.

### Fold

Returns the result of applying a function to a sequence with 1 to 16 elements.

This method has 16 overloads.

### From

Returns a sequence containing the values resulting from invoking (in order)
each function in the source sequence of functions.

This method has 4 overloads.

### Generate

Returns a sequence of values consecutively generated by a generator function

### GenerateByIndex

Returns a sequence of values based on indexes

This method has 3 overloads.

### GroupAdjacent

Groups the adjacent elements of a sequence according to a specified key
selector function.

This method has 6 overloads.

### Index

Returns a sequence of where the key is the zero-based index of the value in
the source sequence.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Insert

Inserts the elements of a sequence into another sequence at a specified index.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Interleave

Interleaves the elements of two or more sequences into a single sequence,
skipping sequences as they are consumed.

### OrderBy

Sorts the elements of a sequence in a particular direction (ascending,
descending) according to a key.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Pad

Pads a sequence with default values if it is narrower (shorter in length) than
a given width.

This method has 3 overloads.

### PadStart

Pads a sequence with default values in the beginning if it is narrower
(shorter in length) than a given width.

This method has 3 overloads.

### PartialSort

Combines `OrderBy` (where element is key) and `Take` in a single operation.

This method has 4 overloads.

### PartialSortBy

Combines `OrderBy` and `Take` in a single operation.

This method has 4 overloads.

### Random

Returns an infinite sequence of random integers using the standard .NET random
number generator.

This method has 6 overloads.

### RunLengthEncode

Run-length encodes a sequence by converting consecutive instances of the same
element into a `KeyValuePair<T, int>` representing the item and its occurrence
count.

This method has 2 overloads.

### ScanBy

Applies an accumulator function over sequence element keys, returning the keys
along with intermediate accumulator states.

This method has 6 overloads.

### ScanRight

Peforms a right-associative scan (inclusive prefix) on a sequence of elements.
This operator is the right-associative version of the Scan operator.

This method has 6 overloads.

### Segment

Divides a sequence into multiple sequences by using a segment detector based
on the original sequence.

This method has 6 overloads.

### Sequence

Generates a sequence of integral numbers within the (inclusive) specified range.

This method has 2 overloads.

### SkipUntil

Skips items from the input sequence until the given predicate returns true
when applied to the current source item; that item will be the last skipped

### Split

Splits the source sequence by a separator.

This method has 12 overloads.

### StartsWith

Determines whether the beginning of the first sequence is equivalent to the
second sequence.

This method has 4 overloads.

### TagFirstLast

Returns a sequence resulting from applying a function to each element in the
source sequence with additional parameters indicating whether the element is
the first and/or last of the sequence

### Take

Returns a specified range of contiguous elements from a sequence using the
range operator.

### TakeEvery

Returns every N-th element of a source sequence

### TakeUntil

Returns items from the input sequence until the given predicate returns true
when applied to the current source item; that item will be the last returned

### ThenBy

Performs a subsequent ordering of elements in a sequence in a particular
direction (ascending, descending) according to a key.

This method has 2 overloads.

### Window

Processes a sequence into a series of subsequences representing a windowed
subset of the original

### WindowLeft

Creates a left-aligned sliding window over the source sequence of a given size.

### WindowRight

Creates a right-aligned sliding window over the source sequence of a given size.

### ZipLongest

Returns a projection of tuples, where each tuple contains the N-th
element from each of the argument sequences. The resulting sequence
will always be as long as the longest of input sequences where the
default value of each of the shorter sequence element types is used
for padding.

This method has 3 overloads.

### ZipShortest

Returns a projection of tuples, where each tuple contains the N-th
element from each of the argument sequences. The resulting sequence
is as short as the shortest input sequence.

This method has 3 overloads.

[dict]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary-2
[kvp]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/System.Collections.Generic.KeyValuePair-2
[lookup]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.linq.lookup-2
